So let's have a look at status checks.
So status checks on your EC2 instances are automated checks
done by AWS for you that will identify hardware
and software issues with your EC2 instances.
So the first type is a system status check,
and this will be a monitoring of problems that will happen
with the systems of AWS directly, for example, a software
or a hardware issue on the actual physical host
that will be used, that will be the one
that your EC2 instance is placed on.
Or for example, if your host has a loss of system power
and so on.
To have a overview of these issues,
a place to look at is the Personal Health Dashboard
and this will give you an information
around any scheduled critical maintenance by AWS
that will affect, that will, sorry,
affect your EC2 instance host
and therefore you need to act on it.
So a way to act on it is to stop and start your instance.
So let's have a look.
As we can see here, we have a host one,
this is hidden to us, okay?
But this is what happens in the data center of AWS,
and our EC2 instance is launched onto this host one.
Then say that AWS has a hardware failure,
then this system status check will be going from zero
to one, and what we have to do is to stop
and start the EC2 instance.
So anytime you stop an EC2 instance
and then you start it again.
So not a reboot, right? But a stop and a start.
Then internally what's going to happen
is that your EC2 instance will automatically be migrated
to a different host within AWS,
which also explains
why it will get a new difference public IP,
because this will be the public IP
of the host you're on.
Okay? So this is a different host migration.
So it goes from host one to host two,
and because what we'll just stopped and started,
then we know that it's moved
and the host two does not have any issues
and so therefore we have solved
our hardware failure problem.
The second type of problem is an instance status check.
This is to monitor software
and network configuration of your instance.
For example, the network configuration becomes invalid.
There's exhausted memory, this kind of stuff,
in which case to just resolve this issue,
you should just reboot the EC2 instance
or change the instance configuration.
Finally, there is a new status check
called the attached EBS status check, which is going
to monitor the EBS volumes attached to your instance
to see if they are reachable
and to see if they can complete IO operations.
And in case you have an issue with your EBS volumes,
then you should reboot the instance
or replace the affected EBS volumes.
So that's it for the three status checks.
But there is a way for you to automate the recovery
and look at CloudWatch Metrics, so.
CloudWatch metrics are status check failed system,
status check failed instance,
and status check failed attached EBS,
or if you have any of these issue,
you also have status check failed,
which groups the three together.
So option one is to use CloudWatch Alarm
to recover your EC2 instance.
So there is an action called recover instance.
And when it's being used by CloudWatch Alarm,
it will recover the instance by using the same private IP,
the same public IP, the same EIP,
the same metadata and same placement group.
You can also send a notification
because it's a CloudWatch Alarm, directly to SNS.
So your EC2 instance will be monitored
by CloudWatch Metrics, for example,
for the status checked failed system metric.
The CloudWatch alarm will be triggered on top
of your CloudWatch Metric in case it goes to one,
and the action of your CloudWatch alarm will be
to recover your EC2 instance by placing it somewhere else.
You can also send an notification to Amazon SNS,
as I just said.
The option two, which is a bit more less con,
a bit less conventional, is to use an auto scaling group
with a min, max and desired of one
and with an health check to check for the status check
of your EC2 instance.
What will happen is that in case there is a issue
with your EC2 instance, it will be terminated
by your auto scaling group,
and therefore because we have a min, max
and desire to one, a new EC2 instance will be launched
within your same auto scaling group.
So in this case, you don't have the same EBS volumes,
you don't have the same private IP,
you don't have the same elastic IP,
but at least your instance is back up and running.
And if you automate things well,
then you could maybe regain back its state.
Okay? So these are two options.
Obviously, option one is going to be much preferred
if you have emphasis on one specific EC2 instance.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.